Date: 2012-05-08
Title: Recent update on uniqush-push
Tags: uniqush, uniqush-push
Slug: update-2012-05-08
Category: news

As I mentioned in [uniqush after Go 1](http://blog.uniqush.org/uniqush-after-go1.html), _uniqushd_ is now renamed to _uniqush-push_. However, it is more than a renaming work. I will review some changes on _uniqush-push_ in this blog post.

### HTTP responds more information

Users communicated with _uniqushd_ through HTTP. Whenever a request was received, _uniqushd_ would reply an HTTP response containing only one line: _id=xxxxx_. It is the request ID which helps users check the status in log. There was no other information responds from _uniqushd_. Users have to check log to see if a push was successfully sent to the cloud.

_uniqush-push_ now uses HTTP as communicating protocol as well, but provide more information inside the HTTP response. On adding push service provider or subscribing a service, it responds the service provider's ID or delivery point's ID respectively. On push, it responds _Success!_ on, well..., success. On failure, it responds the reason. But there is one exception: on retry, which usually happens on some temporary failure, it only respond _Retry_ and users have to check log to see if the message is successfully delivered.

### Fixed a bug

Thank [@M_Cainelli](http://twitter.com/M_Cainelli) for his [bug report](https://twitter.com/#!/M_Cainelli/status/199917700305268737).

Description of this bug: send subscribe command to _uniqush-push_ several times with same delivery point under same subscriber, push a message to the subscriber, there will be multiple messages pushed to the delivery point.

This is because of the cache mechanism in front of database. On adding a delivery point to a subscriber in the cache, we forget to check if the delivery point is already under the subscriber. This will then cause the multiple time of delivery.

### Future

Besides, we have re-arranged the namespace preparing the comming of _uniqush-conn_. I am busy on designing the protocol between _uniqush-conn_ and client. Hopefully, we could release _uniqush-conn_ on time.

