Date: 2012-07-31
Title: Big changes are coming soon
Tags: news, uniqush, 
Slug: update-2012-07-31

Given the plan in [uniqush after go1], some changes, which may be considered as big changes, will be made in the coming August. 

- A new static website for [uniqush.org]. Yes, no more [trac].
- A new [uniqush organization] on github is created. All [uniqush] related code will be moved under [uniqush organization]. It is more than welcome to join it.
- [uniqush] will provide binary packages for 64-bit GNU/Linux systems, including .deb package, .rpm package and .tar.gz package (which can be used on all 64-bit GNU/Linux systems). It is **highly** recommended to install [uniqush] system from those packages. No more *go get* (but you can still use *go get* anyway if you like).
- Last but not least, the release of *uniqush-conn* and other stuff will be postponed (sorry about that). Hopefully, I could make it before Feb. 2013. Watch the repositories on [uniqush organization] for more updates.

Here are some details about these updates.

### Home page will be static

Check out our [uniqush-www] repository, the whole website will be there. It is a static website created by [webgen].

Reason:

- I found some spam using [uniqush]'s [ticket] even if I have already added CAPTCHA plugin, which is very anoying.  
- I don't quite like to backup databases for wiki pages on [uniqush], although it is done automatically by two cron jobs running on [uniqush.org] and a small Arm server in my home. Recovery the whole website from scratch is still hard even if I have all content on my hand (import data to database, setup [trac] and its plugins again, etc.)
- If I use [webgen] based static pages, I can easily change the look of the website by changing the template.

The website will be replaced once I migrated all pages on [uniqush.org]. So please expecting the outage of [uniqush.org] for one or two days. In the meantime, you can still access our source code from [uniqush organization].

### Uniqush organization on github

The [uniqush organization] is meant to cover most development-related operations on uniqush system --- including *uniqush-conn*, *uniqush-push*,  *uniqush-client* and their issue tracks. This job could be done better by using an individual organization account, rather than a personal account. Moreover, considering there are already some people contacted me saying they are interested to join the [uniqush] system development team, an organization is the best fit for such team work in the future.

However, because we will migrate source code to [uniqush organization], programs, if any, using code from uniqush-push should be aware of the changed url.

### Binary packages

One of the beautiful parts of [Go programming language] is: it deliberately does not support shared library or dynamic library. That means the program written in [Go programming language] is **self-contained**, i.e. one executable, no dependencies (in the sense of library, not external program). Once the program is produced from compiler, you can copy it around and it can be **always** run regardless what ever the libraries you have installed on the machine.

This makes me very easy to produce binary packages, which should be a necessary part for an free/open-source project.

Right now, all packages are produced and will be on-line after replacing the website with static pages.

### *uniqush-conn*, and other stuff

I have to appologize for the delay. I over-estimated my ability and under-estimated the workload I am facing right now. However, the good thing is: I have a more concrete design on the whole system.

*uniqush-conn*, as always, will be written in [Go programming language]. The core part of *uniqush-client* will be written in C for portability and performance consideration. There will be several derived work on *uniqush-client* to support different platforms including Android, iOS. This means the core part of mobile library is written in native C language, which, as you can expect, will be and should be fast.

### Misc

- *uniqush-push* will support wildcast when you push some notification to subscribers. For example, you can name your subscriber as group1.sub1, group1.sub2, group1.sub3, etc. Then you can say "push message to group1.\*" and the message will be push to all subscribers whose name starting from group1..
- *uniqush-push* will support true multicast. Because [GCM] introduced multicast, we need to support it in native way.

All features above will be included in the next release, verion 1.3.1

[uniqush after go1]: http://blog.uniqush.org/uniqush-after-go1.html
[uniqush]: http://uniqush.org
[uniqush.org]: http://uniqush.org
[uniqush-www]: http://github.com/uniqush/uniqush-www/
[ticket]: http://uniqush.org/report
[trac]: http://trac.edgewall.org/
[uniqush organization]: http://github.com/uniqush
[webgen]: http://webgen.rubyforge.org/
[Go programming language]: http://golang.org
[GCM]: http://developer.android.com/guide/google/gcm/index.html
